Alif Lam Meem, Allah, La ilaha illa Huwa Al-Hibb Al-Qayyum,
Nazala alayka Al-Kitab Bil-Haqq Musabdiqa Lima Bayna Yadihi Wa Anzala Al-Tawrat Wa Al-Injeel,
Min Qabnu Hudan Li Al-Nas Wa Anzala Al-Furqan,
Inna Allatheena Kaffaru Bi Ayat Allahi Lahum Adabuhu Shadeed,
Wa Allahu Azizun Muthu Muthiqan,
Inna Allaha La Yahta Aalayhi Shajjin Fi Al-Ardi Wa La Fi Al-Sama
Assalamu Alaikum Wa Rahmatullahi Wa Barakatuh
Bismillahir Rahmanir Raheem, Alhamdulillahi Wahdahu Wa Sallallahu wa Sallam
Wa Baraka Ala Malla Nabiyya Ba'dahu Wa Ala Aalihi Wa Ashaabihi Ajmaeen
We commence by praising Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala,
sending blessings and salutations upon Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wa sallam,
upon all the messengers that Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala has sent from the beginning of time up to Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wa sallam.
We ask Allah to bless all of them and to bless their companions and those who supported them,
those who struggled and strived to protect the deen that Allah had revealed and to pass it on to others in a way that today,
Alhamdulillah, it has come to us.
May Allah bless us all and grant us every form of goodness and make us from those who can continue the message
and pass it through to our children and inshallah,
may we be from amongst those whom the Almighty is pleased with.
Beloved brothers and sisters,
we had commenced yesterday the story of the ascension and the story of the journey by night,
known as Al-Isra wal-Mi'raj.
And this had happened as a gift to Rasulullah sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
after what was known as the year of sorrow or grief or sadness,
where the Prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam had lost his uncle,
he lost his wife Khadija radiallahu anha,
he lost, meaning he went to Al-Ta'if and there also he was beaten and he was made to bleed
and they did not accept the message,
he came back to Makkah al-Mukarramah and persecutions continued there.
So Allah sallallahu alayhi wa sallam gave him a gift.
And in the eleventh year of prophethood,
Allah sallallahu alayhi wa sallam sent Jibreel alayhi wa sallam
whilst the Prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam was resting in the house of Ummu Hani
as we mentioned yesterday his cousin and that is where he was sleeping
and Jibreel alayhi wa sallam came and took him to Al-Bayt al-Haram to where the Ka'ba is
and Jibreel alayhi wa sallatu wa sallam there had,
according to the narrations,
slit the chest of Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wa sallam,
removed his heart and washed it with Zamzam,
this was again, this had happened in the past
and it repeated itself according to the books of the Seerah thrice.
May Allah sallallahu alayhi wa sallam grant us the understanding,
it was washed with Zamzam,
the angels had come and washed the heart of Rasulullah sallallahu alayhi wa sallam,
filled it with Yaqeen and as we know,
the conviction is one of the most important things when it comes to belief in Allah sallallahu wa ta'ala
and when it comes to Islam and Muslimin.
So the Prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam was then taken on what was known as a buraq,
buraq an animal which is between a mule and a donkey,
a white animal and it took Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
from Makkah al-Mukarramah all the way to Jerusalem in Bayt al-Maqdis in Jerusalem,
Masjid al-Aqsa as we know it today
and the Prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam was there in no time
but as he was traveling, he noticed everything on the way,
subhanallah, he noticed everything on the way,
when he got there,
subhanallah, he was made to meet some of the Prophets of Allah sallallahu wa ta'ala from amongst them,
Jesus may peace be upon him, from amongst them,
Moses may peace be upon him,
Ibrahim, Abraham may peace be upon him,
Isa, Musa, Ibrahim alayhi wa sallam,
these were some of the Prophets who were there,
Allah sallallahu alayhi wa sallam had instructed Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
in Bayt al-Maqdis, in Masjid al-Aqsa in the particular place
to lead them in prayer with two rak'ah of prayer
and the Prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam was an imam,
he led them in prayer and then he came out and he was taken up to the heavens.
We believe that before Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wa sallam,
Jesus may peace be upon him was taken up,
he was taken up in body and soul
and he was taken up alive before he was crucified,
before he was killed,
that there was no crucifixion,
nor was there any killing,
but before they could harm him,
he was taken up to the heavens
and at the moment he is there
and at the same time we also believe
that he will be returning before the end of time,
this is the belief of the Muslims,
that Jesus may peace be upon him is alive,
he has been taken up into the heavens by Allah sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
and he is there,
may Allah sallallahu alayhi wa sallam grant us a deep understanding,
he is in the second heaven
and he will return to the earth closer to the end of time,
so it had happened in the past,
it is nothing impossible for Allah sallallahu alayhi wa sallam,
here it happened again,
this time Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wa sallam was taken up to the heavens with Jibreel,
the angel Gabriel may peace be upon him,
taken all the way up as they got to the first heaven,
a call, a call asking a question
as they wanted to enter,
who are you, I am Jibreel,
who is with you, Muhammad is with me sallallahu alayhi wa sallam,
has he been sent for,
which means he is invited here,
yes he is,
it opened and he went in,
lo and behold he met Adam alayhi sallatu wa sallam,
first heaven,
so Adam alayhi sallam the first of human beings
and the first of those who were sent to his own children
in order to remind them what was right and wrong,
he welcomed Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
not only as a child,
because obviously he is the father,
but also as a colleague,
may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala bless us all
and Alhamdulillah there after meeting him
and being welcomed,
he proceeded up with Jibreel alayhi sallatu wa sallam
to the second heaven,
as they got up again the same question asked
and they were allowed in again
and he met two people,
who were they,
two prophets of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala,
one was Jesus may peace be upon him
and as we said,
Jesus Isa alayhi sallatu wa sallam is alive
and he was taken up in the condition
that he was alive,
so we believe that he did not die,
may Allah's peace be upon him
and with him was Yahya alayhi sallatu wa sallam
the one known as John,
John the Baptist may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
bless them both and grant them goodness
and may we be from amongst those who learn a lesson
from the beautiful life of Jesus
may peace be upon him
and from his sacrifices and miracles
and the same time may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
make us from those who realize
that the end of prophethood came
with Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
we are fortunate to be from his ummah,
after that he proceeded to the next heaven
when he proceeded in fact he was welcomed
by the two and the same thing happened
where they welcomed him,
congratulated him
and he proceeded to the third heaven,
in the third heaven,
he met Yusuf alayhi sallatu wa sallam
the most handsome of all the messengers
of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
the hadith says he was granted half of all beauty
subhanallah
so the other half, the other 50%
is split between the rest of us
Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
grant us goodness
and make us from amongst those really
who can appreciate whatever we look like
I've actually said it in the past
your identity you did not apply for it
it's Allah who chose it for you
don't get upset
the person this way that way
every one of us has something
that will not be perfect
you know you have one shoulder
a little bit low a little bit
no one notices it
you have a nose slightly this way
one eye a bit bigger smaller
one brow this way that way
don't worry you cannot get it perfect
number one
number two is
if you become conscious
you only become from amongst those
who are ungrateful to Allah
don't worry
whatever you look like is unique
that is you that what makes you you
Allahu akbar
may Allah be pleased with us
and may we be pleased also
with Allah's decisions for us
so he was welcomed again
MashaAllah Yusuf a.s.w.
welcomed him
and thereafter they proceeded
to the next heaven
another messenger of Allah
subhanahu wa ta'ala
Idris a.s.w.
he was there
he met Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wasallam
and Jibreel he welcomed them
and so on
as they progressed up the heavens
every time they were asked
who was it
the answer came Jibreel
who is with you
Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wasallam
has he been called for
yes he has
then the gates open
and they go up into the next heaven
the next heaven
they met Harun a.s.w.
that was the fifth heaven
Harun a.s.w.
he welcomed them
and MashaAllah
thereafter they proceeded
to one of the messengers
of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
who went through a lot
Musa a.s.w.
and the Prophet Musa a.s.w.
welcomed them
and MashaAllah
he was so happy to meet them
and thereafter
as they are progressing
one narration says
he began to cry
Musa a.s.w.
one narration says this
it's important that we make mention of it
and when he was asked
what is it
he says
because you are a messenger
who will have many more followers
on the day of Qiyamah than myself
subhanallah
and then they proceeded
to the next heaven
where they met Ibrahim a.s.w.
seventh heaven
the Prophet Abraham
upon the highest level
the father of most of the prophets
the father of the prophets
who came after him
including Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wasallam
when they met him
MashaAllah he welcomed them
and they saw what is known as
Al-Bait ul-Ma'mur
it is a house
that is visited by the angels
reportedly 70,000 angels
enter this place of worship
which is above the Kaaba
directly above the Kaaba
going very high
above the seventh heaven
and the angels engage in the
Ibadah of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
every day
70,000 angels enter
and the same angels do not return
the next day there is another 70,000
and that happens every single day
up to the end of time
Allahu Akbar
so imagine the number of angels they are
may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
bless us and grant us goodness
do you know
that the Quran makes mention
of the dua of the angels
the angels ask Allah
to forgive those who believe
and the angels ask Allah
to forgive those who are repenting
and the angels engage in seeking forgiveness
for those on earth
والملائكة يسبحون بحمد ربهم
ويستغفرون لمن في الأرض
the angels declare the praise of their Rabb
and they seek forgiveness
for those on earth
subhanallah look at how lucky we are
when we are sitting now here
anyone who is engaged in anything wherein
they are becoming closer to Allah
subhanahu wa ta'ala
the angels have encircled them
and the blessings of Allah
descending upon them
and the angels are praying for them
making dua for them
seeking forgiveness for them
may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala bless us
and may He make us feel that
this is why we say
don't miss an occasion
to learn more of your religion
to purify your knowledge
and to authenticate it
and to learn as much as you can
in order for you to get closer
to Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
as the days pass
instead of getting further away
may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala take us close
now a quick mention before we go further
the journey by night
from Mecca to Jerusalem
was known as Al-Israa
this an entire surah has been named after
subhana alladhi asraa bi abdihi layla min al masjid al haram
ila al masjid al aqsa
alladhi barakna hawlah
linuriya hu min ayaatina
inna huwa assami'ul basid
glory be to Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
who took his slave on a journey by night
from Mecca to Jerusalem
the place around which Allah has blessed
in order for him
meaning Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
to be shown by Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
some of the signs of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
so this is a sign of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
people cannot deny it
especially today
because we know how quick we can make a journey
to the other corner of the world
and we know that technology
has progressed even further
than what a passenger aircraft can take you
meaning as quick as a passenger aircraft
the passenger aircrafts are very slow
they had had a concord
why did they stop it?
because of a few disasters
but they have means of transport
even faster than a concord
it's just that people cannot risk
making use of it
Allahu Akbar
if you take a look at the missiles they have
within a few seconds
they arrive where they have to
Allah protect us
Subhanallah
imagine if someone had to sit on one of them
Allahu Akbar
make sure there's no warhead there insha'Allah
may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala protect us
and grant us goodness
and may he make us from amongst those
who realize and understand
nothing is impossible for Allah
also going up to the heavens
we made mention of Isa alayhi salam
already having done that
and he remained there
the difference is Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
came back to tell us
he actually came back
and he informed us so accurately
as we will see in a few moments
that ascension was known as mi'raj
the mi'raj going up
the buraq did not go up with them
but it was Jibril alayhi salatu wa salam
who took Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
in what is known as mi'raj
like an elevator going all the way up
by the will of Allah
how exactly it happened
that we will only find out
when we ourselves get to the akhirah
but we believe
may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us
that firm belief and conviction
so thereafter Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
was made to go even higher
and he spoke with Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
he spoke with his rab
and Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
spoke to Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
on this occasion of mi'raj
when he had gone up
beyond the seventh heaven
there is something at the end of the seventh heaven
a huge lote tree
known as sidratul muntaha
it is the final, the last tree
a huge tree describing
Rasulullah sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
describes its fruit and its leaves
as being like the ears of elephants and so on
and subhanallah a huge tree
you cannot see its beginning
and cannot see its end
a huge tree
and that depicts the end of the seventh heaven
beyond which is what I named
baytul ma'mur moments ago
we spoke about it
the house that is visited by the angels
and the house wherein
the ibadah of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
takes place by the angels
and Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
met Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
and the discussion that happened
within that discussion
Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala gave
Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
a gift, a gift of what?
a gift of salaat
salaat, this prayer
we pray it five times a day
Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala told him
that your followers should pray
fifty times a day
that's a gift
imagine salaat is a gift
it protects us from so much
it disciplines us
it trains us
control of your gaze
control of your movements
control of what goes in
and out of your mouth
everything in salaat
I cannot eat in salaat
because I need to train myself
and at the same time
act of worship for Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
we have so many medical benefits of salaat
although the prime aim of reading salaat
is for the pleasure of Allah
but we achieved so much
you know they call it a by-product
it might not be exactly what you had aimed for
but you're getting so much more
they've thrown in freebies
so to speak in our language today
you have perks, mashaAllah
you know you have a job, mashaAllah
you get a salary
and at the same time you get perks
so because I'm working here
I get this and I get that
my children's school fees is paid
and this happens
even if I've got ten children
everyone will benefit
subhanallah
this is a different example
because it's Allah
وَلِلَّهِ الْمَثَلُ الْأَعْلَى
Allah has the highest of examples
so the only point being raised is
when we fulfill salaat
we will have so many side benefits
although the main purpose of fulfilling
it would be for the pleasure of Allah
in order to obey the instruction of Allah
wholeheartedly
so it was a gift
Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wasallam
was coming down now
and when he came down
Musa alayhi wassallam
was quick to ask him
what happened there
so he says well this is what happened
and I spoke to Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
and I was given a gift of 50 salah
he says no go back
go back to do what
go back and ask for a decrease
because your ummah is not going to manage
50 salah a day
they're not going to manage
so the Prophet sallallahu alayhi wassallam
went back up
and it was revised downwards
by Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala to 45
as he's coming back
Musa alayhi wassallam sends him back
go back again
45 still no good
and in fives
it kept on coming down
until it stopped at five
subhanallah five
and on top of that
Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wassallam
was told
that those who fulfill the five correctly
will have a reward
multiplied by ten
so equivalent to 50
subhanallah
we still
imagine I
whenever I read this hadith
I think of one thing
I think what if it was me or you there
even the five
we would have probably said
you know what
let's revise it downwards
to perhaps have it one a day
you know or maybe even five a year
or something of that nature
Allah forgive us
wallahi
why I say this is
perhaps that might not be the case
but
we are so lazy
even the five that we do fulfill
if we fulfill them
with such laziness
what if we had had 50
subhanallah
don't we owe
Musa alayhi wassallam
subhanallah
may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala bless them all
these were the prophets all related to one another
masha'allah
and they really
they served us in a very great way
salawatu rabbi wa salamuhu alayhim jami'an
may Allah's peace and blessings
be upon them all
amin
so masha'allah
this was the gift of salah
and the hadith continues to say
whoever fulfills a deed
multiplied by 10
and on top of that
on the same occasion
Muhammad salallahu alayhi wassallam
was told
something that brings tears to the eyes
whoever fulfills a good deed
that good deed shall be multiplied by 10
and whoever intends to do a good deed
but did not manage to fulfill the intention
they will have a reward for that
and whoever intends to do a bad deed
but does not do it
neither will they have a reward
nor a sin
so you plan to do a bad deed
but you didn't do it
no reward, no sin
and whoever plans to do a bad deed
and executes it
will get one sin next to their name
Allahu Akbar
look at how the evil
is not multiplied by the mercy of Allah
but the good is multiplied
by the mercy of Allah
subhanahu wa ta'ala
this is what we were granted
at that point of
mi'raj
when Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
spoke to Muhammad salallahu alayhi wassallam
there is a question
did
Rasulullah salallahu alayhi wassallam
see Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
he was asked that when he returned
did you see Allah
he says
nurun anna araha
Aisha radiallahu anha
was also asked
did Rasulullah salallahu alayhi wassallam
see Allah
speaking we know
but did he see Allah
subhanahu wa ta'ala
she said
nurun anna araha
he is such nur
how would it have been possible for him to see him
which means he did not see him
may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
grant us the sight
that seeing of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
is a gift
which is kept for
jannah
for paradise
those who enter paradise
they will all have
whatever they want in paradise
and on top of that
they will be asked
do you have whatever you want
and they will all say
let me word it differently
and we will all say
Alhamdulillah may Allah make us from them
yes
and then Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala will say
I have something more for you
for those who have done good
they will get good in return
and we will give them even more
they have excess
what is more
so Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala will remove the barrier
between them and him
and they will see him for the first time
and that will be the biggest gift
the biggest gift ever
given to any of the creatures of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
may Allah make us from amongst them
imagine to look at your Rabb
today we look at people
and we say mashaAllah good looking
and we look at motor vehicles
and we look at cars and houses
and so many different things
and we look at sceneries
and we get excited
what about the maker of all that
subhanAllah
Rabbul Izzati wal Jalal
may Allah grant us
the sweetness of looking at him
as is in the dua of Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
so when he came down
sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
and the same evening
he was back in his same bedding
the bedding still warm
which means
it had not yet struck dawn
and he was back
subhanAllah
and he tells
those who are around him
Ummuhani according to one of the narrations
what had happened
and immediately
they believe
immediately because they knew
that this is the messenger of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
and
he said I am going to go out
and announce this to Quraysh
according to one narration says
don't go out and announce it
because they might not believe you
they'll make a mockery of you
he says no
he has been told to deliver the message
so he went out
and he announced it
he called the people
and the Abu Jahal and them came running
because they wanted to know
what is this man calling us for now
when we've been persecuting him so much
now what does he want
maybe he wants to strike a deal
they went forth
and he says
I have been taken up at night
into the seven heavens
and I traveled from here to Jerusalem
all in one night
and I returned and came back
before the morning
they started laughing
scoffing
what a joke
this is impossible
and then they spoke to Abu Bakr
Al-Siddiq radiallahu anhu
asked him a question
would you believe if someone tells you
that they went from here to Baytul Maqdis
in one night and from there
same night going all the way up to the seven heavens
coming down and so on
your friend says this
he says well if he says it
I believe it
if he says it
he was the first one
whom without even a pause
immediately said
if he said it
it's the truth
this is why he was known as Al-Siddiq
the one who was not only truthful himself
but the one who recognized the truth
immediately and surrendered to it
may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
make us from those
who recognize the truth
and who can surrender to it immediately
as I said yesterday
sometimes we know the truth
but we don't surrender to it
because of our weakness
why is that the case
may Allah strengthen us to dress properly
may He strengthen us to fulfill our prayers properly
wallahi don't be mistaken
there are people across the globe
who are far less fortunate than us
who are making an effort
to obey Allah's instructions
and their effort is far more fruitful than ours
may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
bless us and make it easy for us
so the Prophet صلى الله عليه وسلم
thereafter was asked questions
by the people of Quraysh
because there was a buzz
now in Quraysh people are talking
did you hear this madman
what happened to him
he came here
he says he did this and did that
and these people who believe him
are even more mad
there were some believers
who were weak
who had taken a little bit of time
before they actually surrendered to it
but subhanallah
the kuffar of Quraysh
the disbelievers came up with questions
some of them had visited Jerusalem
so what had happened is
they asked a question
describe for us Jerusalem
describe it
so Rasulullah صلى الله عليه وسلم
started describing
very accurately
door by door
house by house
describing everything
this is the
this is how you enter
this is what happens
this is where
this is this is where
that is
they were shocked and gobsmacked
no response
the people of Quraysh
so they asked him another question
they said okay
our caravan
that is on its way
did you see it
he said yes I saw it
and you know what
it is at the moment
in such and such a place
returning to Medina
and there is a white camel
which has a black spot on it
that is right in the front
and if you expect it
on such and such a day
it will be coming
sorry in Makkah
sorry not Medina
it will be arriving
at this particular place
and it will be coming here
and you will see it
and lo and behold
exactly what happened
and he mentioned the water
and he mentioned how much was on it
and what happened
and how many camels they were
and the people
and all the details
Subhanallah
so much so
that when for a moment
he had paused
because he was trying to remember
what exactly had happened
Allah Subhanahu wa Ta'ala
put the image again in front of him
as he was sitting there
and then he began to describe it
and it's in front of him
and he says
not only this caravan
you are asking about
another two caravans
he described them
and where they were
and what happened
Subhanarabbiya al-A'la
Quraysh still gobsmacked
Allahu Akbar
there is an important point
at that juncture
they said this man is a magician
and he is a fortune teller
he can tell fortune
that's what it is
and they quickly just sidelined him
whereas he came with Quran
that prohibited
not only fortune telling
but magic as well
this evening we heard verses
SubhanAllah
powerful verses
Musa Alayhi Salatu wa Salam
what did he say?
قال موسى ما جئتن به السح
Moses told the Pharaoh
and the magicians
that what you people have come with is magic
what I have come with
is a sign from Allah
and then he says
إن الله سيبطله
إن الله لا يصلح عمل المفسدين
Allah will destroy that magic
magic is doomed completely
it will be destroyed
because Allah does not allow those
who engage in corruption on the earth
to succeed
they won't succeed
the deeds of those who are corrupt
they don't succeed
no matter what
so these were verses we heard
that same Quran
how can the man who brought it
engage in magic
and how can the man who brought it
who says
من أتى عرافا أو كاهنا
فصدقه بما أخبر
فقد كفر بما أنزل على محمد
صلى الله عليه وسلم
whoever goes to a fortune teller
or a soothsayer
and believes what the fortune teller
has to say
has disbelieved in what Muhammad came with
SubhanAllah
may Allah save goddess
and the same man
they're calling him a fortune teller
do you see
الله أكبر
Allah opens the doors
for whomever he wishes
and he closes the doors
upon whomever he wishes
may Allah سبحانه وتعالى
open our doors
what is important is
when Muhammad صلى الله عليه وسلم
went up into the heavens
he was taken on a tour
a tour to see what
to see heaven
and to see hell
and he saw certain things in heaven
and he saw certain things in hell
he saw in quite a bit of detail
how the people of hell
were being punished
and when he came back
he told us
that the people who eat interest
were being punished in a specific way
those who commit adultery
those who engage in this sin
were being punished in a specific way
and then he says
Ya Bilal, O Bilal
what is it that you do?
do
when I was in
touring paradise
I heard your footsteps in paradise
سمعت خشخشتك في الجنة
he says I heard the خشخش
خشخش is the sound of a little slipper
when you're walking
and later on it was discovered
that Bilal ibn Rabah
who was a slave
who was freed by the Muslims
he was a slave of Umayyah ibn Khalaf
and he was freed by Abu Bakr al-Siddiq
رضي الله عنه
he was from Africa
it was later discovered
that whenever he made wudu
whenever he washed
he did not allow the wudu to expire
without reading two rak'ah of salah
soon as he completed his wudu
he would read two rak'ah of salah
may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
make us from those
really who are steadfast
and from those who can fulfill our salah
those people read salah
out of the love of Allah
at that particular time
it was not yet made compulsory
it was there
but not made compulsory
but at that stage
when the Prophet صلى الله عليه وسلم
came down
and he told his people
the following day
it became compulsory
to say the prayer five times a day
and that was happening
or that happened
from the moment of mi'raj
now one might ask
how did the Prophet صلى الله عليه وسلم
learn how to pray
and how to make wudu
if you recall we made mention of it
early on when he was granted
prophethood and his wife Khadija
binti Khuwailid رضي الله عنها was there
Jibril عليه الصلاة والسلام came
and made wudu
and he repeated the wudu after him
and he read two rak'ah of salah
which Muhammad صلى الله عليه وسلم
repeated after him
and that is how he knew how to pray
in the initial stages
but the prayer was not five times a day
and it was not compulsory
this is why Aisha رضي الله عنها says
that when salah first came down
it was mathna mathna
we just used to read two rak'ah
two rak'ah
for every salah
and we just used to have units of two
that's it
but later on
after the day of Mi'raj
the following day
Jibril عليه الصلاة والسلام came to Muhammad صلى الله عليه وسلم
two days in a row
the first day
he came and he led salah
at the beginning time of every prayer
so by that the beginning time was known
and the next day
he led salah at the ending time
of every prayer
and in that way
the ending time was known
so now we would know
how there is a beginning time of every salah
and there is an ending time of every salah
because that was taught by Jibril عليه الصلاة والسلام
and Muhammad صلى الله عليه وسلم was given this
and shown it
do you know what we learn from this?
one of the points is that
when we lead by example
we actually leave a greater mark
than when we just speak about something
and we have not yet led by example
even with our children
one is to tell them do this and do that
the other let them see you doing it
they will do it automatically
they will fight with you to dress with a scarf
when they see you dressed appropriately
but you're in a little tighty
moving around showing half of your belly
and you're telling your child to wear a scarf
or to dress decently
that's not going to happen
without one word you can achieve it
if you're ready to do it
but you can speak mountains full of words
it won't happen
in fact it becomes worse as the generations pass
may Allah سبحانه وتعالى
safeguard us
so this is how Jibreel عليه الصلاة والسلام
had came and taught the Salah
and the Muslims had read Salah
and Subhanallah from that day on
the Salah had been compulsory
this prayer that we have
خمس صلوات في كل يوم وليلة
remember one thing
one of the biggest gifts
you can ever have
is if Allah has granted you
the acceptance to fulfill your Salah
upon its beginning time
that is a gift
which means
الصلاة على وقتها
Salah upon its beginning time
that's the biggest gift
because Shaytan one of his plans
and I'm sure all of us
have been affected by this at some stage
one of his plans is to tell you
don't worry there's still a bit of time
that is the plan of the devil
to distract you
don't worry there's still a bit of time
so what happens we say okay there's 20 minutes
and before you know it you get a phone call
hey there's five minutes
and before you know it
the Adhan of the next Salah is on
oh I missed it
but I really wanted to read it
well you know what
you should have really wanted to know
how Shaytan operates as well
may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
grant us goodness
this is Shaytan
he operates in a very systematic way
he knows how man thinks
this is why don't leave
what you have to do
for even the next moment
if you can't do it in this moment
may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
bless us and grant us goodness
now the persecution continued
the people of Makkah had something new
to laugh about
and the Mu'mineen subhanallah
it increased their Iman
verses were being revealed
every single day
revelation was coming
most of the days revelation was coming
Jibril a.s. came down with verses
what type of verses were revealed in Makkah
all the stories of the Prophets
were revealed in Makkah
all the Surahs
which start with the separated letters
were revealed in Makkah
besides the first two
all of them
and what else
the short verses which have in them
about belief
one Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
life after death
heaven and hell
all this was revealed in Makkah al-Mukarramah
and what is going to happen in heaven and hell
and so on
so to do with belief
the issue of the angels
the issue of destiny and so on
this was revealed in Makkah al-Mukarramah
this was the type
these were the type of verses
that were revealed in Makkah
the Prophet sallallahu alayhi wasallam
and the Muslims really enjoyed
enjoyed the verses coming down
that was a comfort for them
and they would forget the persecution
they would forget what happened
because they would achieve
the sweetness of these words
and more and more were entering
the fold of Islam
but quietly in a way
that others don't know
and even if they got to know
and they were persecuted
they did not mind
there came a time
when Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wasallam
had had enough
now he began to look for another base
he had tried out ta'if
didn't work
now he started
going to the festivals of the Arabs
they used to have lots of festivals
some of them known as Ukkar
and Mijannah
and Dhul-Majaz
and some of them based in different places
but the biggest was during Hajj
the Mawsim of Hajj
the festival or season of Hajj
what used to happen in these festivals?
a few things
one is they were dealing products
buying selling
you know this way that way
and another is
each one used to boast and brag
about their lineage
and what they've achieved
and their language
and how powerful they were
and each one used to have his own poetry
and the other one used to come
and praise the poetry
and the other one
another man came with better poetry
so they would turn to him
and consider this one that and this one
and they brought the news
and tafakhur
they wanted to be
one above the other
and that's why they got together to boast
it was like a show basically
so Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wasallam
used to go there
and he used to seize the opportunity
with Abu Bakr as-Siddiq radiallahu anhu
and sometimes some of the other companions
at night
he used to go to the dwellings
the tents where they used to sleep
and he used to speak to them
where are you people from?
I am a messenger
I have brought from Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
a message to worship Allah alone
and to not to bury your daughters alive
and to fulfill the covenant unto Allah
not to steal
not to cheat
not to commit adultery
and so on
and some of them responded
with great negativity
with a little bit of positivity
meaning either way
and there were some people
who actually went out
back to Quraysh and told them
that this man here is trying this and that
during the daytime
he would walk through
he would walk through these
whilst the festival is going on and so on
and he would utter aloud
ayyuhannaas
ya ayyuhannaas
qulu la ilaha illallah
tuflihu
same statement
O people
say there is none worthy of worship
besides Allah
and you will be successful
and he continued uttering
and you know one of the leaders of Quraysh
was known as Abu Lahab
an uncle of Muhammad sallallahu alaihi wasallam
like a little child
he would run behind Muhammad sallallahu alaihi wasallam
and scream
hey don't listen to this man
he's a mad man
hey this man
and Muhammad sallallahu alaihi wasallam
kept repeating these words
so people were watching
the one who really looks mad
is the guy at the back
isn't it
because he looks foolish
this man let him do his thing
come on
subhanallah
but this man was supposed to be a leader of Quraysh
running behind him saying
hey he's a mad man
watch out he's going to divert you
from the worship of your forefathers
and so on
and he came up with statement after statement
wallah it was a joke
but people gathered around Muhammad sallallahu alaihi wasallam
without uttering
they didn't say we agree
or we disagree
they heard
now there was a difference
between the people of Mecca
and the people from elsewhere
the people of elsewhere
in some cases had had the opportunity
to mix with Jews or Christians
so to them it was not new
if they heard about life after death
because the pagans of Mecca
did not believe in life after death
so when Muhammad came with a message
to the people of Mecca
telling them that there is a life after death
you are answerable for every action of yours
they laughed at it
because they used to do as they wished
but the others when they heard it
they were quiet
the reason is
they had already heard it from others
and they knew that there is something like this
so much so that the people of Medina
which was known as Yathrib at the time
it was renamed
after Muhammad sallallahu alaihi wasallam
Al-Madeena
Al-Madeenatul Nabawiyah
or Al-Madeenatul Munawwarah
the city that is enlightened
the city that is lit up
or the city of the prophet
it has many many names
Subhanallah
but the old name was Yathrib
they had mixed with the Jews
and the Jews used to tell them
that there is a prophet
that is about to be sent at this moment
and we will follow him
and we will fight together with him against you
and we are going to destroy you
like Ad and Thamud have been destroyed before
so they knew that there is something going to happen
when they heard this man they were quiet
however
the prophet sallallahu alaihi wasallam
as he continued
there were a few people
who listened to him
and he used to see them
he used to go out as we said
quietly at night into their tents
and have a good discussion with them
look
I would like you to protect me from Quraysh
I am a prophet of Allah
and Allah will protect me
but I have been instructed to seek the assistance of people
so why don't you come and believe
believe in Allah
we are calling towards goodness
we are not calling towards anything bad
we are calling towards that
which will result in your success
so
some of them showed a little bit of interest
but they were worried about
their clans
because remember these were just small groups of people
their clans were left back in their own areas
they had to have message from them to say
okay bring the man forth and so on
we will look after him
without that there was no guarantee
so this is why
some of them
they accepted Islam
without saying openly that we've accepted Islam
from amongst them was a man known as Suwaid ibn Samit
when the prophet sallallahu alaihi wasallam went to him
and told him
that do you know
I am a messenger
and I have with me something
he says
well I also have something with me
so the prophet sallallahu alaihi wasallam says what do you have
he says I have
the words of Luqman
Luqman the wise
so the prophet sallallahu alaihi wasallam says
okay say them to me
so he started saying the words
you know we have it in surah Luqman
we have a whole surah
named after Luqman
according to us
and according to the
narrations and scholars
he was not a prophet of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
but a wise man
and it is reported that he was from Sudan
from Noba
which is in Sudan
and he was a man who was very very wise
granted wisdom by Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala Luqman
so when this man said the words
of Luqman alaihi wasallam
the prophet sallallahu alaihi wasallam
said to him
I have something even better than that
so this man says
Suwaid ibn Aslam
it says what do you have
he says I have Quran
which is revealed and recited
and it is full of meaning
so he says okay recite it
so the prophet sallallahu alaihi wasallam
began to recite the Quran
and this man after that
did not leave the prophet sallallahu alaihi wasallam
he didn't leave Nabi sallallahu alaihi wasallam
he accepted it without uttering
that I've accepted this faith
he was worried
see people at the time
always worried about family
and worried about what's going to happen
I'm going to be persecuted and so on
up to today the same worries
you have reverts who revert to Islam
their families make life difficult for them
and their people expel them
and sometimes we as Muslims
don't do any good to them
because we look at them with skepticism
why did this person accept Islam
you know maybe they're here to spy on Islam
and the Muslims
I seek refuge with Allah
so what most people who have spied on Islam
have turned to real Islam
subhanallah
because after they come in
to listen to what goes on in the house of Allah
subhanahu wa ta'ala
they realize the Muslims are the ones
they don't waste time in the house of Allah
they don't speak about anything
that is non-beneficial
they get straight to the point
they call you towards Allah and that's it
Muhammad sallallahu alaihi wasallam
used to call towards Allah
not towards himself
so this man he remained
and thereafter he went back to his people
in Madinah
Suwaid ibn As-Samit was from Madinah
he went back to his people in Madinah
but he did not tell anyone
there was a huge war that took place
after he went back
known as Buath
Yawmu Buath
it was a war that took place
between Aws and Khazraj
and so many people were killed
he was one of them who was killed
and his people say
we bear witness that this man was a Muslim
ever since he came back from that festival
and he met Muhammad sallallahu alaihi wasallam
he was not the same
he was a Muslim
so his people bore witness
but he did not propagate the deen
that was one man
then there were people from Banu Amir
a place in Sabah
in the Yemen region
they had come
and there were good discussions
between Muhammad sallallahu alaihi wasallam and them
but there was a stumbling block
what was it?
they said okay
you're gonna come to us in Yemen
we'll take you in
everything will happen
your message will go
and you know the people will accept it
but once they accept it
and when you leave
everything must be handed to us
and we must be in control of this whole new religion
that was the stumbling block
he said no
Allah will decide what will happen to us
and what will happen to leadership
in this particular ummah
so you can't say
that now you will start
controlling all the people from everywhere
who are going to accept the message
so they said well if that's the case
why should we sacrifice?
and then when you are gone
the honor must go to someone else
subhanallah
may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us honor
today you can be an Arab
or you can be
a non-Arab
you can be an African or an Asian
or an American or a European
you can be anything you want
the honor and dignity
that Allah grants you through Islam
is something
that goes beyond the boundaries
or the limits or the lines of race
completely beyond
so Allah grants honor to a person
who comes from anywhere on the globe
he can be from the subcontinent
from Australia
no matter where
today the globe is a small little village
we know people who we've never met
but we know them through the internet
subhanallah
and what happens?
Allah has granted them such a high status through Islam
and yet they are of a totally different race
imagine if this was only blocked to one race to say
you want to know anything about religion
you must only do it through the Chinese
one wonders what would happen
Allah protect us
I don't know what made me say China
but there are a lot of Muslims in China as well
millions of them subhanallah
may Allah protect them and grant them ease and goodness
since we've mentioned them
we mentioned that people are being persecuted on the globe
and they are still keeping their deen with us
mashallah look at us
we're sitting in the house of Allah
as free as anything
we're not persecuted at all
Alhamdulillah
thank Allah
and make use of these days
by getting closer to your maker
may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us goodness
so those were the people of Banu Amir
there was another believer
who believed in Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
he was a young boy who came in a group of people
the group of Anas ibn Rafi'
who was also known as Abu al-Haisar
and they had come
this young boy's name was Iyas ibn Mu'adh
and he came as a young boy
and Rasulullah sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
met them at the festival
and he presented Islam to them
read some Quran to them
told them that these people were from
they had actually come
in order to strike a treaty with Quraysh
so that they could be protected from Khazraj in Medina
because they were fighting
so they went to Quraysh to say look you know what
their intention was to go and say
we want you to protect us from these people
and please can you help us
so when the Prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
heard that these people had come to meet Quraysh
he quickly went to them
and he presented Islam to them
and said I am a messenger
and I am a person who is sent by Allah
and my message I am not calling towards myself
I am calling towards worshipping the maker
the cherisher, nourisher, sustainer, creator
the one whom we are going to return to
worship him and worship him alone
so what happened is
these people from Medina
they had known
because they had heard this from the Jewish people
and the people of the book
whom they had interacted with in the past
and who were living in that region
so this young boy known as Iyas ibn Mu'adh
he says to the others
this man is right
he is saying he has to offer something better
than what you have come for
you came for signing a treaty with Quraysh
sign a treaty with your maker
better
so Iyas says yes it's good
but this man the leader of that group
got up and scolded him and said hey keep quiet
don't be distracted and they carried on
so this young boy he had Iman in his heart
when he went back to Medina
he also died after the day of Buath
the day of that war that took place
he died as well a young boy
known as Iyas ibn Mu'adh
and his companions say that this man
we could hear him at night
declaring the greatness of Allah
Tasbeeh and Tahleel and Takbeed
Subhanallah
Alhamdulillah
Allahu Akbar
we could hear him say this
which means he was a Muslim
and the Prophet sallallahu alayhi wasallam
confirmed this also in a narration
he was the second person
who had accepted Islam
but was unable to propagate the message
so this was the first
the beginnings of Islam in Medina Munawwara
but it was not spread
until Allah favored the people of Medina
that day of Buath
there was such a great war
that most of the leaders were killed
now when the leaders are gone what happens
there is a bit of chaos
when the leaders are there
and Islam is presented to them
what did they used to say in Makkah
they used to say no ways
we're going to lose our chair
our seat
you know
when there's a man sitting on a chair
he doesn't want anyone else to sit on that chair
it happens
so for as long as he's alive
there's no hope
the minute he's dead
what will happen
there is a lot of hope
because now things can change
Allahu Akbar
so this is what happened in Medina Munawwara
when those leaders were dead
they were looking for someone to lead them
they were divided into two main clans
Al-Auth and Khazraj
these two used to fight
forever and ever
they've always been fighting
and they were at war
they killed so many of one another
now that there was a massive war
where so many of their leaders had passed away
there was a little bit of a stalemate
and they were just licking their wounds
and counting their losses
and in the meantime the festival happened
when that festival happened
Rasulullah صلى الله عليه وسلم
met a group of six of them
we need to remember these six
Subhanallah
he told them where are you from
they said we're from Yathrib
can I sit and talk to you for a little while
he said yes
you know if we sit and read
the etiquette of Rasulullah صلى الله عليه وسلم
as a messenger
how he sat with these people
how he presented Islam
how he respected them
how he answered their questions
we will learn a lot of diplomacy
may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us that
how we speak to people is very important
sometimes this tongue
can destroy a home, a house
because we don't know how to talk
and what can happen Subhanallah
because we've used our tongue correctly
we can build relations
even with people who may be enemies
may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala bless us
so he met six people
and he sat down and had a chat with them
he gave them the story of Islam
these six were
As'ad ibn Zurara
may Allah be pleased with him
later on to be known
Awf ibn Harith
Rafi ibn Malik
Tutba ibn Amir
Uqba ibn Amir
and Jabir ibn Abdullah
these were people from Khazraj
when they were told
in the 11th year of prophethood
that this is the message of Allah
and there is heaven and there is hell
and you are answerable and so on
they told each other do you know what
this is what the Jews are speaking about all the time
and now that the Jews have always been telling us
there's a prophet about to come
we've got a feeling this is the man
and let us believe in him quickly
because the message is exactly
what they have been saying it would be
and if we believe in him
Subhanallah
we will be successful
the six of them accepted Islam
and they went back to their people
and started teaching Islam
Insha'Allah tomorrow
we will see how the migration
to Medina Munawwara had started
and how it occurred
by the will of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
may Allah bless us
may he bless not only these six
whom we have just mentioned
but all those who struggled
and strived for the deal
and may he make us from amongst them
wa salallahu wa sallam wa baraka ala nabina Muhammad
subhanallahi bi hamdihi
subhanaka allahum wa bi hamdiki
nashhadu alla ilaha illa anta
nastaghfiruka wa natubu ilayki
alif la ammeen
allahu la ilaha illa huwa alhiyyul tayyum